## Data and code accompanying the manuscript Filek *et al.* 2022 "More than just hitchhikers: a survey of bacterial communities associated with diatoms originating from sea turtles" FEMS Microbiology Ecology, fiac104, doi:10.1093/femsec/fiac104 
  
Here you can find bash code used to process NGS data in QIIME 2 and IQ-TREE, and R code used to visualize most of the data related to the manuscript. The data processing was separated based on the marker gene used: 16S and *rbcL* genes.  
Data can also be found at Mendeley Data http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/4r6568xcpw.1
  
### Abstract
Diatoms and bacteria are known for being the first colonizers of submerged surfaces including the skin of marine reptiles. Sea turtle carapace and skin harbour diverse prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes, including several epizoic diatoms. However, the importance of diatom-bacteria associations is hardly investigated in biofilms associated with animal hosts. This study provides an inventory of diatoms, bacteria, and diatom-associated bacteria originating from loggerhead sea turtles using both metabarcoding and culturing approaches. Amplicon sequencing of the carapace and skin samples chloroplast gene rbcL and 16S rRNA gene detected in total 634 diatom amplicon sequence variants (ASVs) and 3,661 bacterial ASVs indicating a high diversity. Cultures of putative epizoic and non-epizoic diatoms contained 458 bacterial ASVs and their bacterial assemblages reflected those of their host. Diatom strains allowed for enrichment and isolation of bacterial families rarely observed on turtles, such as *Marinobacteraceae*, *Alteromonadaceae*, and +Alcanivoracaceae*. When accounting for phylogenetic relationships between bacterial ASVs, we observed related diatom genera might retain similar microbial taxa in culture, regardless of the turtle's skin or carapace source. These data provide deeper insights into the sea turtle-associated microbial communities, and reveal the potential of epizoic biofilms as a source of novel microbes and possibly important diatom-bacteria associations.
  
  
Also the data for the preprint: Filek *et al.* 2022 "More than just hitchhikers: a survey of bacterial communities associated with diatoms originating from marine reptiles" 2022.04.19.488760; doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2022.04.19.488760
